uh the council that un's operation space
in Gaza is shrinking he said uh the
agency is facing a quot deliberate and
concerted campaign to undermine its
operations in Gaza at a time when its
crucial services are most needed let's
bring in alzer's Gabriel elizando at un
headquarters in New York who's been
listening in a strong statement there
from Philip lazarini Gabe with a very
dire warning about the situation in Gaza
yeah there were several things that
really struck me here but as he went
into this uh security council meeting he
briefly told reporters going in that he
wanted to uh set the stage for how
important unra is and what the
ramifications would be if it is
dismantled like he said and like we've
heard from Israeli officials uh that
they want to dismantle it uh fipe
lazarin basically giving a little bit of
a history lesson to the council
reminding them that unra was set up 75
years ago as a temporary solution until
there was a political process in place a
political solution lazarina is saying
there hasn't been a political solution
so that is why we are still in Palestine
particularly in Gaza providing services
such as health care education safety uh
uh Aid he said and that is why we're
there and if we were to be dismantled
like like he is giving indications that
is actually happening right now due to
Israeli targeting he said who would
provide all of that until there's a
political solution essentially no one
can provide that until there's a final
political solution but even in a
transition to a political Solution
that's potentially years before uh some
other body or some other entity could
provide what unra provides so I mean
that was very striking there laid it out
very clearly that there's no other uh
besides unra there's nothing else
basically and in January of course we'll
recall uh Gabe that um Israel's
government presented uh the United
Nations with information um accusing
unra employees of of taking part in the
um October 7th terror attack attacks but
they didn't provide any evidence of that
right what's the latest on the
investigation into
that well there's two number one is
there's an internal investigation uh by
the United Nations that's done behind
closed doors privately uh that's an in
investigation that was ordered by the
Secretary General we do not know when
they will be issuing their findings but
they are looking
specifically at the allegations that
Israel has leveled against uh 12 unre
employees that's number one we don't
know when that will be uh uh completed
and or if it'll be made public we think
it'll be made public but it doesn't have
have to be but the UN has said that they
probably will the second investigation
it's more of a not so much an
investigation but it's it's it's more of
a looking into if uh unra is being
impartial in their in their work and
that is being led by the former foreign
minister of France uh and that is
concluded and that will be released
publicly in the next few days not so
much an investigation there but more of
just taking an assessment if unra is uh
acting and in their practices is
impartial uh if you will I should point
out that Israel has not given any
evidence to their claims uh that any
unre employees were involved in October
7th to the United Nations directly to
this day okay Gabe thank you very much
for that that's Al jazer is Gab Londo
reporting their live from the United
Nations we will check in with you
throughout the evening to find out uh
the latest there uh at the security
Council as
it here's a briefing uh about the
situation in uh
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer